Your thyroid is a small gland
shaped like a bow tie
located in the front of your neck
below your Adam’s apple.
It wraps around your windpipe or trachea,
with lobes on either side,
joined by a bridge called an isthmus,
which crosses over the front of the windpipe.
Using iodine from the food you eat,
the thyroid produces hormones
that regulate the rate at which
all the cells in your body function.
Sometimes the thyroid becomes enlarged.
There are many possible causes.
An enlarged thyroid gland,
also known as a goiter,
can cause problems with breathing or swallowing
if it gets large enough to compress
the windpipe and esophagus,
which carries food to your stomach.
Goiters are more common in women
and older adults.
Treatment depends on its size,
signs and symptoms,
and the cause
and can include surgery or thyroid drugs.